src/README.md, before:

# imxrt-rs

This book includes documentation that pertains to most imxrt-rs development.
It's for users who want to learn more about imxrt-rs Rust packages, and for
users who want to use imxrt-rs packages in their projects.

## Getting started

If you're not familiar with our work, take a look at the [ecosystem
walkthrough](./ecosystem_walkthrough/). The walkthrough demonstrates how you can
combine imxrt-rs packages to support your embedded Rust development.

If you're using an imxrt-rs package, consult the [toolchain
setup](./toolchain.md) to prepare your development environment. Our recommended
[flashing and debugging tools](./flash_debug/) can help you deploy your
application on your hardware.

For links to helpful references, check out our [external documentation
sources](./external_docs.md).

### About

We provide community support for using Rust on NXP's i.MX RT processors. We
develop hardware drivers with
[embedded-hal](https://crates.io/crates/embedded-hal) compatibility. We also
provide packages for embedded application development and debugging. To support
these goals, we collaborate with the broader embedded Rust community.

By supporting this platform, we want to improve the general quality and
accessibility of embedded Rust.

### Contact

-   Join the Matrix chat:
    [#imxrt-rs:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#imxrt-rs:matrix.org).
-   Reach out on [GitHub](https://github.com/imxrt-rs) issues and discussions.

Commit message:

Revise front matter, getting started
Link to the imxrt-hal examples for those who want to dive right in.

src/README.md, after:

# imxrt-rs

User and developer documentation for the imxrt-rs project.

## Getting started

If you're not familiar with our work, take a look at the [ecosystem
walkthrough](./ecosystem_walkthrough/). The walkthrough demonstrates how you can
combine imxrt-rs packages to support your embedded Rust development.

If you're using an imxrt-rs package, consult the [toolchain
setup](./toolchain.md) to prepare your development environment. Our recommended
[flashing and debugging tools](./flash_debug/) can help you deploy your
application on your hardware.

For links to helpful references, check out our [external documentation
sources](./external_docs.md).

If you're already familiar with embedded Rust and want to dive in, the best
place to start is in [the `imxrt-hal`
repository](https://github.com/imxrt-rs/imxrt-hal). You'll find small hardware
examples that run on various development boards.

### About

We provide community support for using Rust on NXP's i.MX RT processors. We
develop hardware drivers with
[embedded-hal](https://crates.io/crates/embedded-hal) compatibility. We also
provide packages for embedded application development and debugging. To support
these goals, we collaborate with the broader embedded Rust community.

By supporting this platform, we want to improve the general quality and
accessibility of embedded Rust.

### Contact

-   Join the Matrix chat:
    [#imxrt-rs:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#imxrt-rs:matrix.org).
-   Reach out on [GitHub](https://github.com/imxrt-rs) issues and discussions.
